Now we are discussing multiple questions within a single question that is adding, removing, inserting
or replacing elements in an edit.
In short, we are covering all the questions related to edit element manipulation.
The categories, of course, eddies.
And there will be six related questions on this topic.
Let's begin with adding and removing elements in an eddy.
There are four most known methods one can use to add or remove elements.
The methods are Bush Bob shift and shift, though splice can also be used.
But at the moment we will see these four methods and then we will move to other method options.
Push and shift are used to add elements.
The syntax of push is like this that we have the added name which you push and whatever element you
want to add.
You can give any number of elements you can add to an eddy push method, add one or more element at
the end of an eddy, and it returns the new land that is count of elements.
After adding the elements that is unsafe, method adds one or more element at the beginning of an eddy
and it returns the new length that is count of elements after adding those elements.
Bob Method and shift method is used to remove elements.
Bob Method removes last element from and add a and it returns that removed element, whereas shift removes
first element of an eddy and it returns that removed element.
All these things we can see practically in a single example I select error is equal to one, two, three
and four.
Let's add five also.
Now I will say cancel out log.
Added Art Bush.
I lied six here.
Why are we saying console.log?
Because we want to see that after push is executed.
What it returns.
And then I will try to display the value of ADD also.
I'll save this and let's run this code.
It has returned number six.
That is actually the count of elements.
That is one, two, three, four, five.
And now we have added the sixth element surgery down six.
Let me change this so it doesn't confuse you.
I'll say test doesn't matter.
So now we have total six elements and the test is added.
Similarly, instead of push, if I say OpenShift, let's say on shift.
So this is going to add the element for sure, but it is going to add at the beginning, not in the
end.
And also, it hasn't done total number of elements after the element is added to it.
So earlier we had five elements.
Now we have six elements.
So this is about adding the elements at the end or beginning.
Now let's try the pulp method.
So I'll say added art pulp.
We don't need to pass any argument there.
It is just that we say added our pulp.
So this should remove the last element and it should return the removed element also.
So the last element is file that will be returned.
Let's see this.
It has returned fire.
And now our ad, it has only four elements, so it removed the last element.
Now, if I say shift here.
Then it is going to remove the first element.
So the first element is one and that is removed and that removal element is returned by the shift method.
Now adding or removing in the same edit is done, but these methods either work on last or the first
element.
What if you want to add or rather in certain element on a specific position?
Or how about removing a specific element from the add?
This is where a fantastic all rounder method is handy, and that method is the splice method.
Depending on parameters past, it does different types of job like adding, inserting, replacing,
or even removing one or more elements.
This is the syntax of splice, adding name, dart splice.
The first thing is you give the start number.
This is the index number.
From there it starts either deleting or basically it starts performing the operation.
The second element, which is an optional one, is delete count.
Now if you give one, that means you want to delete one element.
If you give five, that means you want to remove five elements from an array.
And the last is the value which you want to add or replace.
But this we need to check in code itself.
So let's do that in the very same area.
I am going to use Splice and I'll say that from the second element.
I want to do something.
Assume that I do not want to give any other parameters here and let's see what happens.
Our ETA is one, two, three, four and five.
Right now I just run the code.
So now what this has done is from this second, that is zero one and two.
This is the second index number from second.
It has deleted all the elements.
So you can see that if you want to remove all the elements after a specific index number, you use place
like this.
So this has removed all the elements from second index.
If I say zero here, that means I want to remove all the elements from zero index.
That is an empty area as you can see here at the same time.
When I say console.log on this, it returns the deleted element.
So you can see that the syntax of splice is it takes start, it takes delete count, which is optional.
Value is also optional, but it returns all the deleted items.
Now here, if I say from second position, I do not want to remove all elements.
What I want is I just want to remove maybe one element only.
That's where delete count is useful.
Let's save this and run it.
Now the deleted element is only this one that is three that has returned and now the edit does not have
three anywhere, but it has one, two, four and five.
So here you can view any number of elements you want.
Let's see, that is a third argument, which is actually and number of arguments you give here.
Right?
That is a value.
What value is here?
We have use two.
That is the starting point number of elements you want to delete.
So we say one only assume that we want to add at the same time instead of three.
I just want to say new what this will do.
This will remove the element, one element from second position, and on that position it will add this
element.
That means instead of three.
Now we will have this new on this place.
So in a way you can see that you have replaced an element, right?
Let's save this and run to get the clear idea how it happens.
So we have one, two and new three is removed and new is inserted.
Imagine you give more items here and number of items, let's say another one.
What this will do.
This will remove one and add to on the second position.
So it means you will have two items inserted and one removed.
So we have one, two, three years removed.
We have new another four and five.
If you remove this one and see zero, that means you do not want to delete anything.
Then naturally it won't do straight away insert and it will not replace in a way it will not delete.
Three.
Let's check this also.
Now the RSI has grown.
It returns empty, adding that means there is nothing to delete and it returns deleted items only.
And here we have one two new from the second position new another three, four and five.
So splice, depending on the type of argument, the way you pass the arguments, it behaves.
So it's a fantastic method to perform all types of operation.
Imagine that you want to add an item like a push method that is at the end.
How will you do that?
You will see added dot length.
That means at last you want to add, let's say, a new element.
I just want to say new.
We don't add to element at the moment, just new.
So when you say added length here, that means that's the last place where you want to insert this element.
Let's do this.
It adds the element at the end.
Similarly, if you want it, it should work as an shift method that it should add at the beginning.
Then you can say zero here.
So from zero to index it'll start adding the list of items.
Right now we have one item only, so that's added at the beginning.
So Splice is a fantastic way to deal with various types of operations within an ADI.
But yes, Splice does change the original ADI.
Right?
So it does mutate the ADI, which is not a very good practice in some cases.
Right.
You should not mutate the original object.
But that's a different discussion.
It's for some identity.
At least right now you can get that.
How useful the splice method is.
Now let's discuss related questions of this topic.
The first question is what is the difference between Bush and shift method?
We have already seen that Bush is acting on the last element, whereas on shift is the beginning of
the ADI.
So on shift adds element.
But at the beginning.
The second question is what is the difference between pop and shift?
So same thing that both the methods remove elements.
But the thing is, Bob does it at the end, whereas shift works on the first element.
Third question is how can you insert an element had given position?
So splice is the method which we can use and we don't say delete count there and in place of start with
you any index number and that will do the job.
The fourth question is how can you remove a specific element?
Again, you will not give any items and you will specify the index number.
And in place of delete count you will have just one.
So that will remove that specific element.
The fifth question is what does splice method return?
So splice method returns, deleted items.
Remember, if there is nothing to delete, then it will return an empty Adi.
And that is what the sixth question is, that if there is no element to be removed, then what will
splice method return?
And this is a kind of code which is Shawn and one can ask you that what will be the output for this?
So there will be an empty area in this piece of code.